[Music]
so when the first cryptocurrency ever
Bitcoin appeared nobody knew how big it
would become I mean the first Bitcoin
purchase was two pizzas but it was
supposed to be big right that was a
story but more than a decade later
Bitcoin is far from being on top so what
happened what start at the beginning
2007 Japan a mysterious man named
Satoshi Nakamoto begins work on a new
bold idea a concept of cyber money
currency existing only in cyberspace in
August of the next year
three men file an application for an
encryption patent application
surprisingly all of them say they have
no idea who Nakamoto is which begins a
rumor that it might be just a pseudonym
for a whole group of people then on
August 18th 2008 Bitcoin auric was
anonymously registered two months later
Nakamoto published a white paper called
Bitcoin a peer-to-peer electronic cash
system explaining the whole concept
behind Bitcoin however the system
officially started to work only in 2009
when the creator's mined the first-ever
Bitcoin block called Genesis block of
course Nakamoto made the first Bitcoin
transaction sending ten bitcoins to a
computer developer in October 2009 a
Bitcoin exchange rate was finally
revealed one Bitcoin equaled three
thousandth of a dollar hmm not very much
huh now it was time for Bitcoin
transactions and the first one was made
in May of 2010 a programmer from Florida
sent 10,000 bitcoins which was about $25
to buy two pizzas if he only knew that a
couple of years later these bitcoins
would be worth roughly 39 million
box that's a lifetime supply of pizza
right there by the beginning of 2011
when Bitcoin was finally worth $1 with
all the buzz around it four months later
it was thirty one dollars against one
Bitcoin however it didn't last that long
just four days after this peak the value
of Bitcoin decreased back to $10 due to
security issues still this didn't stop
Bitcoin from appearing to conquer the
world with more services accepting
bitcoins and new apps coming in April of
2013 it hit the new height of two
hundred sixty six dollars a couple of
hiccups here and there and in November
one Bitcoin went up to one thousand two
hundred forty two dollars twenty
seventeen was a golden year for Bitcoin
in summer its price increased to three
thousand dollars in September it got up
to five thousand dollars and by the
beginning of 2018 it went all the way up
to mind-blowing thirteen thousand
dollars but soon everything went
downhill if you're 2018 was bad Bitcoin
can't compete with that everything was
against it China ramped up their
cryptocurrency sanctions while Facebook
Twitter and Google decided to ban
cryptocurrency ads as a result Bitcoin
plummeted back to three thousand dollars
these days the situation is a bit better
though you can get one Bitcoin for
roughly three thousand nine hundred
dollars still why did the most popular
cryptocurrency in the world suddenly
collapse well there are a couple of
factors that contributed to it
bitcoins depend on a system of people
called miners that verify all the
Bitcoin transactions
however these miners get paid their own
portion of bitcoins for their service as
well and these expenses are getting
bigger every day this process hurts not
only Bitcoin but some miners too they
generate less profit and close and this
circle seems to be never-ending some
countries aren't fans of cryptocurrency
as well including the u.s. in 2018 the
US Securities and Exchange Commission
it clear that the operators of two
initial coin offerings must pay fines
and restitution because they broke the
law
by selling unlicensed securities and as
you might guess this doesn't make
investors any more excited about buying
Bitcoin analysts also have another
theory about bitcoins fall the division
within the cryptocurrency community
you see Bitcoin can only process a
certain number of transactions per
second per second and not everybody is
happy about it in 2017 a faction of the
cryptocurrency community developed
Bitcoin cash an alternative version of
Bitcoin and naturally numerous investors
chose Bitcoin cash which allows them to
make transactions way faster and improve
their work it got so popular that today
one Bitcoin cash values around one
hundred fifty eight dollars just imagine
how many investors original Bitcoin laws
so yeah there are many theories on why
Bitcoin keeps on falling but no definite
answers and it's not surprising it's a
very confusing thing it's far from being
stable now so you basically buy a
lottery ticket when you decide to invest
in it and your lottery odds might be
better of course with the fall of
Bitcoin other crypto currencies started
to become more and more popular today
anyone who wants to get into
cryptocurrency has plenty of options to
choose from like neo neo was originally
called ant shares and was developed in
2014 by da Humphrey this is the largest
cryptocurrency coming from China which
got people talking since China doesn't
approve the whole idea of the
cryptocurrency market neo reached its
all-time peak back in 2017 when it
valued about 162 dollars today however
it wills only a bit over nine dollars
for one token Montero
this is an open-source cryptocurrency
that first came to market in 2014 it's
highly private and leaves no trace
whatsoever and that's why it has so many
dedicated fans that donate their money
for its further development however
there is a dark side to this
cryptocurrency as well as its
exceptional security measures allow
buyers to use it for bad purposes
developers try to make the situation
better though and nowadays one Monero
equals a bit over $54 light coin
so light coin was created back in 2011
by a former Google engineer Charlie Lee
it's one of the first crypto currencies
launched and it is even called a silver
- bitcoins goal in some ways litecoin is
better it's based on an open-source
global payment network and has a much
faster block generation rate and
transaction confirmation whatever the
heck that means right now
one light coin is worth almost $59 and
developers continue to do everything
they can to make it even more popular
and accept it - - or as it is often
called dark coin was developed in 2014
by Evan Duffield it's basically a more
private version of popular Bitcoin when
you use - your transactions are almost
impossible to trace so you don't have to
worry about your anonymity and this
factor attracts numerous users who
choose this cryptocurrency all around
the world at the moment the value of -
is around $90 though atheria aetherium
is a whole platform run on its own
unique token called
ether the pre-sales for ethers was
launched in 2014 and the platform itself
started working in 2015 according to the
platform description you can use ether
to trade secure and codify almost
anything
in 2016 a theorem split into aetherium
and aetherium classic Wow
just two years and you become a classic
now everyone who's interested in this
platform can get one ether for roughly
$137 but even with all these different
cryptocurrencies around the market is
still not very stable so can
cryptocurrency actually survive the
crisis and become the basis of our
future economy nobody knows for sure
Bitcoin advocates say that the number of
things you can buy with cryptocurrency
grows faster and faster of course it's
still not enough to become very common
and the small supply and uneven
distribution of cryptocurrency shows
that this is still a thing for a small
group of interested people government
regulations of cryptocurrency are also
highly important the more countries
accept it the more comfortable
cryptocurrency investors feel and more
and more countries are starting to look
into it however one thing still remains
a huge concern security even though some
crypto currencies like Manero have high
security standards others can be pretty
vulnerable against any type of
cyberattacks Bitcoin for instance was
already hacked several times
adding to investors jitters and all
these times were followed by the serious
decrease of its value so security is
certainly one of the main problems the
cryptocurrency market has to solve for
Bitcoin to survive and prosper so the
future of the cryptocurrency market
appears to be pretty vague there are
some predictions though specialists say
that bitcoins can lay a great foundation
for countries with a weak national
currency especially considering the fact
that nobody has direct control over
their price others are sure that
cryptocurrency is going to fail because
of its instability
but some people still believe in a happy
future for Bitcoin for example Tim
Draper billionaire investor who gave a
bold prediction that one Bitcoin will
achieve the value of $250,000 by 2022 on
the other hand someone once said
economics exist to make astrology more
respectable which means simply hoe notes
[Music]
finally if you find all this terribly
confusing I leave you with this sage
advice from billionaire investor Warren
Buffett never invest in a business you
cannot understand if you really don't
grasp this stuff and most people don't
even though they convince themselves
that they do most times it's a smarter
play just to put your money back in your
pocket and walk away so what do you
think about cryptocurrency
is it the future or just a passing fad
sound off in the comments below don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
always stay on the bright side
[Music]
[Applause]